# OOPS & C#

## Basics

1. What is C#? What is the difference between C# and .NET?
    - C# is a Object-Oriented Programming Language which runs on the .NET Framework.
    - .NET Framework is a framework for building and running software and applications.

2. (Imp)***What is OOPS? What are the main concepts of OOPS?***
    - OOP stands for Object-Oriented Programming, which means it is a way to create software around objects.
    - OOPS provide a clear structure for the software and web applications.
    - OOPS has four main concepts:
        - Inheritance(继承 /ɪnˈherɪtəns/): It is the process of creating a new class from an existing class, which inherits the properties and methods of the existing class.
        - Polymorphism(多态 /pɒliˈmɔːfɪ.zəm/): It is the ability of an object to take on many forms.
        - Abstraction(抽象 /əbˈstrakʃn/): It is the process of hiding the complex details and showing only the necessary information to the user.
        - Encapsulation(封装 /ɪnˌkapsjʊˈleɪʃn/): It is the process of binding data and methods together into a single unit.

3. (Imp)***Which are the advantages of OOPS?***
    - Reuse of code using Inheritance.
        - eg: you can create one method in base class and use it in multiple derived(衍生的 /dɪˈraɪvd/) class without even rewriting them.
    - Flexibility of code using Polumorphism.
        - eg: same name method can do different things via(通过 /ˈvaɪə/) overloading(重载) or overriding(重写覆盖).
    - Secure application by using Encapsulation.
        - eg: which means your field or data are not accessible directly. Data is accessible via properties and methods.
    - Easily scalable(可扩展的 /skeɪləbəl/) from small to large applications.
        - This means if you follow OPPS concepts, you can add more and more functions in your apllication easily in the future, which is good for enterprise level applications.
    - Easier troubleshooting of code because of modularity.
        - This means if you divide your application into separate classes, then you will easily identify in which class you have to look for a particular issue or functionality.

4. What are the disadvantages of OOPS?
    - It is not suitable for small applications.
        - if you are planning to implement all OOPS concepts(概念 /ˈkänˌsept/), then you need planning as well as time. And if your application is small and you have limited time, then you should do less planning and quick implementation.
        - eg: to implement inheritance, you have to analyze what will be the base classed, what will be the derived classes, and how they will be related. Analysis takes time and if you don't have time, then we should not care about OOPS because execution(执行 /eksəˈkyo͞oSHn/) and delivery(交付 /dəˈliv(ə)rē/) are more important.

5. What are Classes and Objects?
    - A class is a LOGICAL UNIT or BLUEPRINT which contains property, method, construtor and field.
        - A constructor is a method which get excuted when the a class object is created.
        - A field is a variable of any type. It is basically the data.
        - A property is a member that provides helps in read and write of private field.
        - A method is a code block which contains a series of statements.
    - An object is an INSTANCE of a class.

6. What are the types of classes in C#?
    - Abstract Class
    - Partial Class
    - Sealed Class
    - Static Class

7. Is it possible to prevent object creation of a class in C#?
    - Abstract Clas
    - Static Class
    - Private Class

8. What is Property?
    - A property is a class member which provides a flexible mechanism to read and write private field.

9.  What is the difference between Property and Function?
    - Property is a special specialized function only.
    - Specialized means properties are used only to get and set field values.

10. What are Namespaces?
    - A namespace is a container for a set of related classes and other types.

## OOPS


